adding contributing.md to snowflake repo (#79)
dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake: CONTRIBUTING.MD

# Contributing to `dbt-snowflake`

1. [About this document](#about-this-document)
3. [Getting the code](#getting-the-code)
5. [Running `dbt-snowflake` in development](#running-dbt-snowflake-in-development)
6. [Testing](#testing)
7. [Updating Docs](#updating-docs)
7. [Submitting a Pull Request](#submitting-a-pull-request)

## About this document

> This document is a guide intended for folks interested in contributing to `dbt-snowflake`. Below, we document the process by which members of the community should create issues and submit pull requests (PRs) in this repository. It is not intended as a guide for using `dbt-snowflake`, and it assumes a certain level of familiarity with Python concepts such as virtualenvs, `pip`, python modules, filesystems, and so on. This guide assumes you are using macOS or Linux and are comfortable with the command line.

Reviewer: Could we actually point people to the dbt docs for using dbt-snowflake maybe :) 

Also, one thing I fail at but try to work at is writing shorter sentences. Let's break up the long one in here!

> For those wishing to contribute we highly suggest reading the [dbt-core](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md). if you haven't already. Almost all of the information there is applicable to contributing here, too!

Reviewer: text formatting issues here

While you're mucking around in this, how about just removing the 'if you haven't already' clause. Let's keep it short and snappy where there isn't essential information.

3. check out a new branch for your proposed changes
4. push changes to your fork
5. open a pull request against `dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake` from your forked repository

### dbt Labs contributors

If you are a member of the `dbt Labs` GitHub organization, you will have push access to the `dbt-snowflake` repo. Rather than forking `dbt-snowflake` to make your changes, just clone the repository, check out a new branch, and push directly to that branch.

## Running `dbt-snowflake` in development

### Installation

First make sure that you set up your `virtualenv` as described in [Setting up an environment](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md#setting-up-an-environment).  Ensure you have the latest version of `pip` installed with `pip install --upgrade pip`. Next, install `dbt-snowflake` latest dependencies:

```sh
pip install -e . -r dev-requirements.txt
```

When `dbt-snowflake` is installed this way, any changes you make to the `dbt-snowflake` source code will be reflected immediately in your next `dbt-snowflake` run.

To confirm you have correct version of `dbt-core` installed please run `dbt --version` and `which dbt`.

## Testing

### Initial Setup

> `dbt-snowflake` contains [unit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake/tree/main/tests/unit) and [integration](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake/tree/main/tests/integration) tests. Integration tests require tsting against an actual Snowflake warehouse. We have CI set up to test against a Snowflake warehouse. In order to run integration tests locally, you will need a `test.env` file in the root of the repository that contains credentials for Snowflake.

Reviewer: got a little typo here

And for some reason, I struggle to read this. How about we just modify the text so that we introduce the idea you can run tests locally on on our CI system for pull requests. Then, we instruct those who want to locally test how to do so in maybe even a separate line. It's a bit jampacked right now. *takes off editor cap*

#### `pytest`
Finally, you can also run a specific test or group of tests using `pytest` directly. With a Python virtualenv active and dev dependencies installed you can do things like:

```sh
# run specific snowflake integration tests
python -m pytest -m profile_snowflake tests/integration/simple_copy_test
# run all unit tests in a file
python -m pytest tests/unit/test_snowflake_adapter.py
# run a specific unit test
python -m pytest tests/unit/test_snowflake_adapter.py::TestSnowflakeAdapter::test_convert_date_type
```
## Updating Docs

Many changes will require an update to the `dbt-snowflake` docs here are some useful resources.

- Docs are [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/).
- The docs repo for making changes is located [here]( https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com).
- The changes made are likely to impact one or both of [Snowflake Profile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/warehouse-profiles/snowflake-profile), or [Snowflake Configs](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/snowflake-configs).
- We ask every community member who makes a user-facing change to open an issue or PR regarding doc changes.

## Submitting a Pull Request

> dbt Labs provides a CI environment to test changes to the `dbt-snowflake` adapter, and periodic checks against the development version of `dbt-core` through Github Actions.  

Reviewer: what does this periodic checks part mean?

Author: I believe this is our nightly checks? not exactly sure if we have any triggers between the two otherwise maybe releases? times we would need to make sure changes to one doesn't break the other.

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure if anything this would refer to checks whenever a commit is pushed as opposed to referring to our nightly monitoring checks. And hence, I'd suggest rewording this to be something like, "As mentioned above, dbt Labs....adapter. The GitHub Actions pipeline runs your feature branch using the current development version of `dbt-core`" -- something that indicates the CI pipeline uses the main branch in dbt core.

A `dbt-snowflake` maintainer will review your PR. They may suggest code revision for style or clarity, or request that you add unit or integration test(s). These are good things! We believe that, with a little bit of help, anyone can contribute high-quality code.

> 

Reviewer: I feel like there should be a comment in this that mentions needing a dbt employee to approve the CI workflow somewhere around here.

1. fork the `dbt-snowflake` repository
2. clone your fork locally
3. check out a new branch for your proposed changes
4. push changes to your fork
5. open a pull request against `dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake` from your forked repository

### dbt Labs contributors

If you are a member of the `dbt Labs` GitHub organization, you will have push access to the `dbt-snowflake` repo. Rather than forking `dbt-snowflake` to make your changes, just clone the repository, check out a new branch, and push directly to that branch.

## Running `dbt-snowflake` in development

### Installation

First make sure that you set up your `virtualenv` as described in [Setting up an environment](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md#setting-up-an-environment).  Ensure you have the latest version of `pip` installed with `pip install --upgrade pip`. Next, install `dbt-snowflake` latest dependencies:

```sh
pip install -e . -r dev-requirements.txt
```

> When `dbt-snowflake` is installed this way, any changes you make to the `dbt-snowflake` source code will be reflected immediately in your next `dbt-snowflake` run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By installing `dbt-snowflake` this way, `dbt` uses the source code in your local `dbt-snowflake` repository exactly as it is when you invoke the program. Saved changes to source code are reflected in the next `dbt` run.
```
A suggestion to make this more explicit (to me! Maybe you can do better than what I've come up with.)

> To confirm you have correct version of `dbt-core` installed please run `dbt --version` and `which dbt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Testing

### Initial Setup

> `dbt-snowflake` contains [unit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake/tree/main/tests/unit) and [integration](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake/tree/main/tests/integration) tests. Integration tests require testing against an actual Snowflake warehouse. We have CI set up to test against a Snowflake warehouse during PR checks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dbt-snowflake` contains [unit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake/tree/main/tests/unit) and [integration](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-snowflake/tree/main/tests/integration) tests. Integration tests require testing against an actual Snowflake warehouse. There are two main options for running tests:

- This repository has a CI pipeline active. It runs tests against a Snowflake warehouse during PR checks. 
- You may also run integration tests locally. This requires a `test.env` file in the root of your snowflake repository. This file must contain credentials for accessing a valid Snowflake account.
```
Figured it might be beneficial to more clearly group and format testing methods.

> In order to run integration tests locally, you will need a `test.env` file in the root of the repository that contains credentials for Snowflake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Note: This `test.env` file is git-ignored, but please be _extra_ careful to never check in credentials or other sensitive information when developing. To create your `test.env` file, copy the provided example file, then supply your relevant credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: This `test.env` file is git-ignored, but please be _extra_ careful to never check in credentials or other sensitive information when developing. To create your `test.env` file, copy the example file provided in this repository, then fill-in your relevant credentials.
```

```
cp test.env.example test.env
$EDITOR test.env
```

> ### Test commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### More on running test commands locally
```

There are a few methods for running tests locally.

#### `tox`
`tox` takes care of managing Python virtualenvs and installing dependencies in order to run tests. You can also run tests in parallel, for example you can run unit tests for Python 3.7, Python 3.8, Python 3.9, and `flake8` checks in parallel with `tox -p`. Also, you can run unit tests for specific python versions with `tox -e py37`. The configuration of these tests are located in `tox.ini`.

#### `pytest`

> Finally, you can also run a specific test or group of tests using `pytest` directly. With a Python virtualenv active and dev dependencies installed you can do things like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also run a specific test or group of tests using `pytest` directly. With a Python virtualenv active and dev dependencies installed, you can run tests with commands like:
```

```sh
# run specific snowflake integration tests
python -m pytest -m profile_snowflake tests/integration/simple_copy_test
# run all unit tests in a file
python -m pytest tests/unit/test_snowflake_adapter.py
# run a specific unit test
python -m pytest tests/unit/test_snowflake_adapter.py::TestSnowflakeAdapter::test_convert_date_type
```
## Updating Docs

> Many changes will require an update to the `dbt-snowflake` docs here are some useful resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many changes will require an update to `dbt-snowflake` documentation. Here are some relevant links.
```

Grammar

Note: This `test.env` file is git-ignored, but please be _extra_ careful to never check in credentials or other sensitive information when developing. To create your `test.env`.

```
cp test.env.example test.env
$EDITOR test.env
```

### Testing Locally Commands
There are a few methods for running tests locally.

#### `tox`
`tox` takes care of managing Python virtualenvs and installing dependencies in order to run tests. You can also run tests in parallel, for example you can run unit tests for Python 3.7, Python 3.8, Python 3.9, and `flake8` checks in parallel with `tox -p`. Also, you can run unit tests for specific python versions with `tox -e py37`. The configuration of these tests are located in `tox.ini`.

#### `pytest`
You can also run a specific test or group of tests using `pytest` directly. With a Python virtualenv active and dev dependencies installed you can run test commands like:

```sh
# run specific snowflake integration tests
python -m pytest -m profile_snowflake tests/integration/simple_copy_test
# run all unit tests in a file
python -m pytest tests/unit/test_snowflake_adapter.py
# run a specific unit test

> python -m pytest tests/unit/test_snowflake_adapter.py::TestSnowflakeAdapter::test_convert_date_type

Reviewer: also add an integration test example or just say this can either be unit or integration
